DEEP LEARNING: ALGORITHMS AND IMPLEMENTATION

Course Code: EM30008

Credit: 3 L-T-P: 3-0-0
Prerequisites: Nil
COURSE OBJECTIVE
In this course, students will learn the fundamental principles, underlying mathematics, and
implementation details of deep learning. This includes the concepts and methods used to
optimize these highly parameterized models (gradient descent and backpropagation, and more
generally computation graphs), the modules that make them up (linear, convolution, and pooling
layers, activation functions, etc.), and common neural network architectures (CNN, RNN, etc.).
Applications ranging from computer vision to natural language processing and generative
models will be demonstrated. Through in-depth programming assignments, students will learn
how to implement these fundamental building blocks as well as how to put them together using
popular deep learning libraries, Keras & PyTorch.
COURSE OUTCOMES
After successfully completing the course, the students will be able to
CO 1: Describe the functional roles of DNN sequential blocks.
CO 2: Demonstrate skills in selecting deep learning architecture for computer vision tasks.
CO 3: Develop critical thinking skills to evaluate and analyze generative models for computer
vision applications
CO 4: Appraise and apply transfer learning and the concepts of fine-tuning
CO 5: Implement deep learning techniques on sequential data
CO 6: Design deep learning techniques to perform efficient analysis for real-world applications
COURSE DETAILS
Foundations of Deep Learning
Overview of ANN, Feed forward, MLP, Gradient descent, back propagation algorithm, evolution
of DL, Regularization
Convolution Neural Networks
CNN Architectures: Convolution, Pooling Layers, Transfer Learning, GAN, Popular CNN
Model Architectures (Imagenet, LeNet architecture, AlexNet, VGGNet, GoogLeNet, ResNet
architecture
Recurrent Neural Network
RNN architecture, LSTM, GRU, Encoder Decoder architecture
Applications of Deep Learning
Applications of Deep Learning to Computer Vision: Image segmentation, Object detection,
Image Captioning, Medical imaging, Image Classification using Transfer Learning, Applications
of Deep Learning to NLP.
Advance Models: Auto-encoders, Generative Adversarial Network

Implementation
Tensor Flow, PyTorch, Comparing TensorFlow & PyTorch, Configuring and Running Jupyter
notebooks on an AWS EC2 GPU Instance.
Textbooks
1. Ian J. Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville, “Deep Learning”, MIT Press, 2017.
2. Charu C. Aggarwal. Neural Networks and Deep Learning: A Textbook. Springer. 2019.
Reference books
1. Phil Kim, Matlab Deep Learning: With Machine Learning, Neural Networks and Artificial
Intelligence, Apress, 2017.
2. Ragav Venkatesan, Baoxin Li, Convolutional Neural Networks in Visual Computing, CRC
Press, 2018.
3. Navin Kumar Manaswi, Deep Learning with Applications Using Python, Apress, 2018.
4. Francois Chollet, Deep Learning with Python, Manning Publications, 2018.

Lesson Plan: DL: Algorithm & Implementation
Sl. No Topic
1 (Module-I)
Foundations of Deep Learning: Introduction to the course 2 Overview of neural network (NN) and deep NN
3 Feed forward network
4 Gradient descent
4 Back-propagation algorithm with examples
5 Multilayer Perceptron (with example)
6 Evolution of DL
7 Regularization
8 (Module-II)
Convolution Neural Networks (CNN): Architectures (Convolution, Pooling Layers) 9 CNN Architectures: Convolution, Pooling Layers
10 CNN problem solving
11 Transfer Learning
12 Popular CNN Model Architectures: Architecture of LeNet
13 Architecture of AlexNet, VGGNet
14 Architecture of GoogLeNet, ResNet
15 Assignment-01
16 Problem solving
17 Module-III
Recurrent Neural Network: RNN architecture 18 LSTM
19 GRU
20 Encoder-Decoder architecture
21 Problem solving
22 Problem solving
23 Module IV
Applications of Deep Learning: Applications of Deep Learning to Computer Vision: Image segmentation 24 Object detection
25 Image Captioning
26 Medical imaging
27 Image Classification using Transfer Learning
28 Applications of Deep Learning to NLP
29 Applications of Deep Learning to NLP
28 Module-V
Advance Models: Auto-encoders 29 Generative Adversarial Network
30 Recent trends (Presentation)
31 Recent trends (Presentation)
32 Recent trends (Presentation)
33 Recent trends (Presentation)
34 Revision: Implementation with programming
35 Class work (Critical Thinking)
36 Class work (Critical Thinking)
